There's one more thing we need
to do in the GameManager,
this is our longest script.
We need to add a method to
restart the game once it's over.
So, just like in other scripts,
we need a RestartGame method.
And if the game is not playing and
RestartGame is called,
then we can unpause the game by
setting the time scale to 1,
because remember we haven't done that
anywhere yet, we've kept setting it to 0.
We'll set it to 1,
we'll reset the game timer and
we'll say that gameIsPlaying is true.
So, let's write that up.
So, public void RestartGame.
We'll say if, The gameIsnotPlaying,
Then unpause the game by
setting the time scale to 1.
So, Time.timeScale should be 1, and
then reset the game timer and
that will say timer is
equal to gameTimeInSeconds.
So we're resetting the game
clock to 60 seconds,
and then gameIsPlaying should be true.
So, we've added a couple of things here.
We have our RestartGame method,
we have a method that gets
called if the game is over.
There's a FixedUpdate that's
running to decrement the timer.
And then in our Start method, we're
setting the game time at the start and
updating the timer in seconds.
And the reason we do this here is because
this UpdateTimer method is going to call
some UI methods.
So we wanna do it here just
before everything starts so
that the UI looks nice
at the start of game.
So, let's save our GameManager, and
we're gonna switch over to Unity.
And now,
it's time to actually create an opponent.
So, we have our player,
switch back to the scene view, but
we never created an opponent.
So, we want that opponent to
be just opposite the player,
and we can do that by
duplicating the player.
So on my Mac, I just selected the player
and hit Command D to duplicate,
and I'm going to change the name
of this game object to opponent.
And just for the sake of clarity,
I'm going to rearrange it in the hierarchy
just so it's next to the player,
that's not actually necessary, but
it's just some good organization.
And so
where do we wanna put this opponent?
Well, we wanna put it on the other
side of the game board here, right?
Well, the player was at negative 3,
that's what our opponent is at,
we wanna put this at positive 0.3,
all right?
So we have the player negative
0.3 of the opponent positive 0.3.
And the opponent is
gonna have all the same
stuff as the player for the most part.
It still needs a sphere collider,
it still needs a rigid body,
it still needs the rolling
movement script,
it still needs score, but
we don't want this to accept input, so
we're going to remove the player
input component from the opponent.
And we're going to remove the player
movement script because we'll
replace that with another script
that will drive rolling movement.
So, let's switch over to the player.
And now that we have all of those restart
methods in place, we can actually add
the rest of our input callback methods.
So, under the player inputs component,
we're going to add several
things to restart here.
I'm gonna switch back
to the slides just so
we can go over what those
are really quickly.
So, we have PlayerMovement.OnMove,
we have that hooked up already, and Unity.
But we need to add six methods to restart,
there's a lot of stuff to
restart when the game gets restarted,
when we hit the spacebar.
And one of those is the method we just
wrote in GameManager.RestartGame,
we need to reset the position for
the rolling movement components on
both the player and the opponent.
We need to reset the position
of the collectible, so
it's back in the middle of the board.
And then we need to reset the score
on both the player and the opponent.
So, there's those six
things we need to hook up.
So, let's switch back to Unity and
do each one of those.
So, I'll come down here, and
here is the restart callback context,
just to review where this is at,
we're on the player game object.
We're looking at the player
input component.
And then I'll fold this back up
because this is how it is by default,
under Events, Player,
Restart is where we want to add these.
So, we need six of them.
So, I'll hit this little plus
button six times, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
And the first one that we
need here is the GameManager.
Now, previously, I was just hitting
this little target icon and
choosing from the menu of things
that are either in the scene or
assets that are in the project.
There's another way you can do this, you
can actually just drag game objects from
the hierarchy or drag things from
the project window into the slots.
Now, this is something that tends
to trip beginners a little bit,
because we need to add the GameManager
to one of these slots so
that we can call RestartGame
on the Game Manager.
Think about this for a second,
we could grab the script here and
put it into the slot but that's not
going to do what we want because that
is going to only be able to access
static methods that are on the class.
It's not going to be able to access
the instance of the GameManager that is in
the actual scene, okay?
So we wanna make sure we're dragging from
the hierarchy in this case to this slot.
And the same thing is true
when you click this button,
so if I were to type in GameManager,
right?
You could get it from assets,
that would be incorrect
though we actually want it from the scene.
So, let's drag the GameManager
over to there,
and then the next thing we
need is the Player, and
we'll call a few different
methods on that.
There's the opponent,
we need the collectible.
And then one more time we need both
the Player and the Opponent.
So, let's set up each
one of these methods.
On the GameManager, we want to call
the public method Restartgame.
On the Player, we need to call on
RollingMovement, ResetPosition.
On the opponent, we need to call
On the Collectible,
we need to call ResetPosition.
And then finally on the Player and
Opponent,
we need to call Score.ResetScore.
So now, if we save the scene,
When I hit the play button
nothing should happen.
And I was fooled because
there's no UI here yet, but
this is doing exactly what
we told it to be doing,
the time scale set to 0 until we hit
the space bar, and then the game starts.
So of course, I can still move around.
The Opponent is there, but
the Opponent isn't really going to do
anything because we haven't written any
scripts that are going to drive its
RollingMovement script just yet.